---
title: azure_blob_storage
slug: azure_blob_storage
type: input
status: beta
categories: ["Services","Azure"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::caution BETA
This component is mostly stable but breaking changes could still be made outside of major version releases if a fundamental problem with the component is found.
:::
Downloads objects within an Azure Blob Storage container, optionally filtered by a prefix.

Introduced in version 3.36.0.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yml
# Common config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  azure_blob_storage:
    storage_account: ""
    storage_access_key: ""
    storage_connection_string: ""
    storage_sas_token: ""
    container: "" # No default (required)
    prefix: ""
    scanner:
      to_the_end: {}
    targets_input: null # No default (optional)
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yml
# All config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  azure_blob_storage:
    storage_account: ""
    storage_access_key: ""
    storage_connection_string: ""
    storage_sas_token: ""
    container: "" # No default (required)
    prefix: ""
    scanner:
      to_the_end: {}
    delete_objects: false
    targets_input: null # No default (optional)
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Supports multiple authentication methods but only one of the following is required:
- `storage_connection_string`
- `storage_account` and `storage_access_key`
- `storage_account` and `storage_sas_token`
- `storage_account` to access via [DefaultAzureCredential](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/Azure/azure-sdk-for-go/sdk/azidentity#DefaultAzureCredential)

If multiple are set then the `storage_connection_string` is given priority.

If the `storage_connection_string` does not contain the `AccountName` parameter, please specify it in the
`storage_account` field.

## Downloading Large Files

When downloading large files it's often necessary to process it in streamed parts in order to avoid loading the entire file in memory at a given time. In order to do this a [`scanner`](#scanner) can be specified that determines how to break the input into smaller individual messages.

## Streaming New Files

By default this input will consume all files found within the target container and will then gracefully terminate. This is referred to as a "batch" mode of operation. However, it's possible to instead configure a container as [an Event Grid source](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/event-grid/event-schema-blob-storage) and then use this as a [`targets_input`](#targetsinput), in which case new files are consumed as they're uploaded and Benthos will continue listening for and downloading files as they arrive. This is referred to as a "streamed" mode of operation.

## Metadata

This input adds the following metadata fields to each message:

```
- blob_storage_key
- blob_storage_container
- blob_storage_last_modified
- blob_storage_last_modified_unix
- blob_storage_content_type
- blob_storage_content_encoding
- All user defined metadata
```

You can access these metadata fields using [function interpolation](/docs/configuration/interpolation#bloblang-queries).

## Fields

### `storage_account`

The storage account to access. This field is ignored if `storage_connection_string` is set.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `storage_access_key`

The storage account access key. This field is ignored if `storage_connection_string` is set.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `storage_connection_string`

A storage account connection string. This field is required if `storage_account` and `storage_access_key` / `storage_sas_token` are not set.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `storage_sas_token`

The storage account SAS token. This field is ignored if `storage_connection_string` or `storage_access_key` are set.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `container`

The name of the container from which to download blobs.


Type: `string`  

### `prefix`

An optional path prefix, if set only objects with the prefix are consumed.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `scanner`

The [scanner](/docs/components/scanners/about) by which the stream of bytes consumed will be broken out into individual messages. Scanners are useful for processing large sources of data without holding the entirety of it within memory. For example, the `csv` scanner allows you to process individual CSV rows without loading the entire CSV file in memory at once.


Type: `scanner`  
Default: `{"to_the_end":{}}`  
Requires version 4.25.0 or newer  

### `delete_objects`

Whether to delete downloaded objects from the blob once they are processed.


Type: `bool`  
Default: `false`  

### `targets_input`

EXPERIMENTAL: An optional source of download targets, configured as a [regular Benthos input](/docs/components/inputs/about). Each message yielded by this input should be a single structured object containing a field `name`, which represents the blob to be downloaded.


Type: `input`  
Requires version 4.27.0 or newer  

```yml
# Examples

targets_input:
  mqtt:
    topics:
      - some-topic
    urls:
      - example.westeurope-1.ts.eventgrid.azure.net:8883
  processors:
    - unarchive:
        format: json_array
    - mapping: |-
        if this.eventType == "Microsoft.Storage.BlobCreated" {
          root.name = this.data.url.parse_url().path.trim_prefix("/foocontainer/")
        } else {
          root = deleted()
        }
```


