---
title: kafka
type: input
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/input/kafka.go
-->


Connects to a Kafka broker and consumes a topic and partition.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
input:
  kafka:
    addresses:
    - localhost:9092
    topic: benthos_stream
    partition: 0
    consumer_group: benthos_consumer_group
    client_id: benthos_kafka_input
    batching:
      count: 1
      byte_size: 0
      period: ""
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
input:
  kafka:
    addresses:
    - localhost:9092
    tls:
      enabled: false
      skip_cert_verify: false
      root_cas_file: ""
      client_certs: []
    sasl:
      mechanism: ""
      user: ""
      password: ""
      access_token: ""
      token_cache: ""
      token_key: ""
    topic: benthos_stream
    partition: 0
    consumer_group: benthos_consumer_group
    client_id: benthos_kafka_input
    start_from_oldest: true
    commit_period: 1s
    max_processing_period: 100ms
    fetch_buffer_cap: 256
    target_version: 1.0.0
    batching:
      count: 1
      byte_size: 0
      period: ""
      condition:
        static: false
        type: static
      processors: []
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Offsets are managed within kafka as per the consumer group. Only one partition
per input is supported, if you wish to balance partitions across a consumer
group look at the `kafka_balanced` input type instead.

Use the `batching` fields to configure an optional
[batching policy](/docs/configuration/batching#batch-policy). Any other batching
mechanism will stall with this input due its sequential transaction model.

### Metadata

This input adds the following metadata fields to each message:

``` text
- kafka_key
- kafka_topic
- kafka_partition
- kafka_offset
- kafka_lag
- kafka_timestamp_unix
- All existing message headers (version 0.11+)
```

The field `kafka_lag` is the calculated difference between the high
water mark offset of the partition at the time of ingestion and the current
message offset.

You can access these metadata fields using
[function interpolation](/docs/configuration/interpolation#metadata).

## Fields

### `addresses`

`array` A list of broker addresses to connect to. If an item of the list contains commas it will be expanded into multiple addresses.

```yaml
# Examples

addresses:
- localhost:9092

addresses:
- localhost:9041,localhost:9042

addresses:
- localhost:9041
- localhost:9042
```

### `tls`

`object` Custom TLS settings can be used to override system defaults.

### `tls.enabled`

`bool` Whether custom TLS settings are enabled.

### `tls.skip_cert_verify`

`bool` Whether to skip server side certificate verification.

### `tls.root_cas_file`

`string` The path of a root certificate authority file to use.

### `tls.client_certs`

`array` A list of client certificates to use.

```yaml
# Examples

client_certs:
- cert: foo
  key: bar

client_certs:
- cert_file: ./example.pem
  key_file: ./example.key
```

### `sasl`

`object` Enables SASL authentication.

### `sasl.mechanism`

`string` The SASL authentication mechanism, if left empty SASL authentication is not used. Warning: SCRAM based methods within Benthos have not received a security audit.

Options are: `PLAIN`, `OAUTHBEARER`, `SCRAM-SHA-256`, `SCRAM-SHA-512`.

### `sasl.user`

`string` A `PLAIN` username. It is recommended that you use environment variables to populate this field.

```yaml
# Examples

user: ${USER}
```

### `sasl.password`

`string` A `PLAIN` password. It is recommended that you use environment variables to populate this field.

```yaml
# Examples

password: ${PASSWORD}
```

### `sasl.access_token`

`string` A static `OAUTHBEARER` access token

### `sasl.token_cache`

`string` Instead of using a static `access_token` allows you to query a [`cache`](/docs/components/caches/about) resource to fetch `OAUTHBEARER` tokens from

### `sasl.token_key`

`string` Required when using a `token_cache`, the key to query the cache with for tokens.

### `topic`

`string` A topic to consume from.

### `partition`

`number` A partition to consume from.

### `consumer_group`

`string` An identifier for the consumer group of the connection.

### `client_id`

`string` An identifier for the client connection.

### `start_from_oldest`

`bool` If an offset is not found for a topic parition, determines whether to consume from the oldest available offset, otherwise messages are consumed from the latest offset.

### `commit_period`

`string` The period of time between each commit of the current partition offsets. Offsets are always committed during shutdown.

### `max_processing_period`

`string` A maximum estimate for the time taken to process a message, this is used for tuning consumer group synchronization.

### `fetch_buffer_cap`

`number` The maximum number of unprocessed messages to fetch at a given time.

### `target_version`

`string` The version of the Kafka protocol to use.

### `batching`

`object` Allows you to configure a [batching policy](/docs/configuration/batching).

```yaml
# Examples

batching:
  byte_size: 5000
  period: 1s

batching:
  count: 10
  period: 1s

batching:
  condition:
    text:
      arg: END BATCH
      operator: contains
  period: 1m
```

### `batching.count`

`number` A number of messages at which the batch should be flushed. If `0` disables count based batching.

### `batching.byte_size`

`number` An amount of bytes at which the batch should be flushed. If `0` disables size based batching.

### `batching.period`

`string` A period in which an incomplete batch should be flushed regardless of its size.

```yaml
# Examples

period: 1s

period: 1m

period: 500ms
```

### `batching.condition`

`object` A [condition](/docs/components/conditions/about) to test against each message entering the batch, if this condition resolves to `true` then the batch is flushed.

### `batching.processors`

`array` A list of [processors](/docs/components/processors/about) to apply to a batch as it is flushed. This allows you to aggregate and archive the batch however you see fit.

```yaml
# Examples

processors:
- archive:
    format: lines

processors:
- archive:
    format: json_array
```


