---
title: pop3
type: input
status: experimental
categories: ["Services"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::caution EXPERIMENTAL
This component is experimental and therefore subject to change or removal outside of major version releases.
:::
Connects to a POP3 server and periodically reads the emails.

Introduced in version 4.12.0.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yml
# Common config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  pop3:
    host: ""
    port: 995
    username: ""
    password: ""
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yml
# All config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  pop3:
    host: ""
    port: 995
    username: ""
    password: ""
    tls:
      enabled: false
      skip_cert_verify: false
    pull:
      count: 0
      interval: 5m
    timeout: 30s
    max_in_flight: 1
    max_body_size: 4096
    list_page_size: 100
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Reads emails from a POP3 server. The emails are permanently deleted when delivered.

### Metadata

This input adds the following metadata fields to each message if present:

```
- Subject
- From
- To
- Cc
- Bcc
- Date
- Received
- Content-Type
- Return-Path
- Delivered-To
```
You can access these metadata fields using [function interpolation](/docs/configuration/interpolation#bloblang-queries).


## Fields

### `host`

The host of the POP3 server


Type: `string`  

```yml
# Examples

host: pop.gmail.com
```

### `port`

The port of the POP3 server.


Type: `int`  
Default: `995`  

### `username`

The username to login on the POP3 server.


Type: `string`  

### `password`

The password to login on the POP3 server.


Type: `string`  

### `tls`

Sorry! This field is missing documentation.


Type: `object`  

### `tls.enabled`

Whether TLS is enabled.


Type: `bool`  

### `tls.skip_cert_verify`

Whether to skip server side certificate verification.


Type: `bool`  

### `pull`

Sorry! This field is missing documentation.


Type: `object`  

### `pull.count`

An optional number of pulls to fetch messages, if set above 0 the specified number of pulls is executed and then the input will shut down.


Type: `int`  
Default: `0`  

### `pull.interval`

The time interval at which message pulls should be performed, expressed as a duration string.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"5m"`  

### `timeout`

The timeout to establish the connection with the POP3 server.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"30s"`  

### `max_in_flight`

The maximum number of messages to have in flight at a given time. Increase this to improve throughput.


Type: `int`  
Default: `1`  

### `max_body_size`

The max number of bytes when reading the message body.


Type: `int`  
Default: `4096`  

### `list_page_size`

The max number of emails returned by the POP3 server. This limit may be configured on the server or may be imposed by the server software.


Type: `int`  
Default: `100`  


