---
title: redis_streams
type: input
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/input/redis_streams.go
-->



import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
input:
  redis_streams:
    url: tcp://localhost:6379
    body_key: body
    streams:
    - benthos_stream
    limit: 10
    client_id: benthos_consumer
    consumer_group: benthos_group
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
input:
  redis_streams:
    url: tcp://localhost:6379
    body_key: body
    streams:
    - benthos_stream
    limit: 10
    client_id: benthos_consumer
    consumer_group: benthos_group
    start_from_oldest: true
    commit_period: 1s
    timeout: 5s
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Pulls messages from Redis (v5.0+) streams with the XREADGROUP command. The
`client_id` should be unique for each consumer of a group.

The field `limit` specifies the maximum number of records to be
received per request. When more than one record is returned they are batched and
can be split into individual messages with the `split` processor.

Redis stream entries are key/value pairs, as such it is necessary to specify the
key that contains the body of the message. All other keys/value pairs are saved
as metadata fields.

## Fields

### `url`

`string` The URL of a Redis server to connect to.

### `body_key`

`string` The field key to extract the raw message from. All other keys will be stored in the message as metadata.

### `streams`

`array` A list of streams to consume from.

### `limit`

`number` The maximum number of messages to consume from a single request. When multiple messages are consumed they are processed as a [batch](/docs/configuration/batching).

### `client_id`

`string` An identifier for the client connection.

### `consumer_group`

`string` An identifier for the consumer group of the stream.

### `start_from_oldest`

`bool` If an offset is not found for a stream, determines whether to consume from the oldest available offset, otherwise messages are consumed from the latest offset.

### `commit_period`

`string` The period of time between each commit of the current offset. Offsets are always committed during shutdown.

### `timeout`

`string` The length of time to poll for new messages before reattempting.


