---
title: socket_server
slug: socket_server
type: input
status: stable
categories: ["Network"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Creates a server that receives a stream of messages over a tcp, udp or unix socket.

```yml
# Config fields, showing default values
input:
  label: ""
  socket_server:
    network: "" # No default (required)
    address: /tmp/benthos.sock # No default (required)
    address_cache: "" # No default (optional)
    tls:
      cert_file: "" # No default (optional)
      key_file: "" # No default (optional)
      self_signed: false
    scanner:
      lines: {}
```

## Fields

### `network`

A network type to accept.


Type: `string`  
Options: `unix`, `tcp`, `udp`, `tls`.

### `address`

The address to listen from.


Type: `string`  

```yml
# Examples

address: /tmp/benthos.sock

address: 0.0.0.0:6000
```

### `address_cache`

An optional [`cache`](/docs/components/caches/about) within which this input should write it's bound address once known. The key of the cache item containing the address will be the label of the component suffixed with `_address` (e.g. `foo_address`), or `socket_server_address` when a label has not been provided. This is useful in situations where the address is dynamically allocated by the server (`127.0.0.1:0`) and you want to store the allocated address somewhere for reference by other systems and components.


Type: `string`  
Requires version 4.25.0 or newer  

### `tls`

TLS specific configuration, valid when the `network` is set to `tls`.


Type: `object`  

### `tls.cert_file`

PEM encoded certificate for use with TLS.


Type: `string`  

### `tls.key_file`

PEM encoded private key for use with TLS.


Type: `string`  

### `tls.self_signed`

Whether to generate self signed certificates.


Type: `bool`  
Default: `false`  

### `scanner`

The [scanner](/docs/components/scanners/about) by which the stream of bytes consumed will be broken out into individual messages. Scanners are useful for processing large sources of data without holding the entirety of it within memory. For example, the `csv` scanner allows you to process individual CSV rows without loading the entire CSV file in memory at once.


Type: `scanner`  
Default: `{"lines":{}}`  
Requires version 4.25.0 or newer  


