---
title: sqs
type: input
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/input/sqs.go
-->


Receive messages from an Amazon SQS URL.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
input:
  sqs:
    url: ""
    region: eu-west-1
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
input:
  sqs:
    url: ""
    delete_message: true
    region: eu-west-1
    endpoint: ""
    credentials:
      profile: ""
      id: ""
      secret: ""
      token: ""
      role: ""
      role_external_id: ""
    timeout: 5s
    max_number_of_messages: 1
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Credentials

By default Benthos will use a shared credentials file when connecting to AWS
services. It's also possible to set them explicitly at the component level,
allowing you to transfer data across accounts. You can find out more
[in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

### Metadata

This input adds the following metadata fields to each message:

```text
- sqs_message_id
- sqs_receipt_handle
- sqs_approximate_receive_count
- All message attributes
```

You can access these metadata fields using
[function interpolation](/docs/configuration/interpolation#metadata).

## Fields

### `url`

`string` The SQS URL to consume from.

### `delete_message`

`bool` Whether to delete the consumed message once it is acked. Disabling allows you to handle the deletion using a different mechanism.

### `region`

`string` The AWS region to target.

### `endpoint`

`string` Allows you to specify a custom endpoint for the AWS API.

### `credentials`

`object` Optional manual configuration of AWS credentials to use. More information can be found [in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

### `credentials.profile`

`string` A profile from `~/.aws/credentials` to use.

### `credentials.id`

`string` The ID of credentials to use.

### `credentials.secret`

`string` The secret for the credentials being used.

### `credentials.token`

`string` The token for the credentials being used, required when using short term credentials.

### `credentials.role`

`string` A role ARN to assume.

### `credentials.role_external_id`

`string` An external ID to provide when assuming a role.

### `timeout`

`string` The period of time to wait before abandoning a request and trying again.

### `max_number_of_messages`

`number` The maximum number of messages to consume from each request.


