---
title: avro
type: processor
status: beta
categories: ["Parsing"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/processor/avro.go
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

BETA: This component is mostly stable but breaking changes could still be made outside of major version releases if a fundamental problem with the component is found.

Performs Avro based operations on messages based on a schema.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
# Common config fields, showing default values
avro:
  operator: to_json
  encoding: textual
  schema: ""
  schema_path: ""
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
# All config fields, showing default values
avro:
  operator: to_json
  encoding: textual
  schema: ""
  schema_path: ""
  parts: []
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Operators

### `to_json`

Converts Avro documents into a JSON structure. This makes it easier to
manipulate the contents of the document within Benthos. The encoding field
specifies how the source documents are encoded.

### `from_json`

Attempts to convert JSON documents into Avro documents according to the
specified encoding.

## Fields

### `operator`

The [operator](#operators) to execute


Type: `string`  
Default: `"to_json"`  
Options: `to_json`, `from_json`.

### `encoding`

An Avro encoding format to use for conversions to and from a schema.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"textual"`  
Options: `textual`, `binary`, `single`.

### `schema`

A full Avro schema to use.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `schema_path`

The path of a schema document to apply. Use either this or the `schema` field.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

```yaml
# Examples

schema_path: file://path/to/spec.avsc

schema_path: http://localhost:8081/path/to/spec/versions/1
```

### `parts`

An optional array of message indexes of a batch that the processor should apply to.
If left empty all messages are processed. This field is only applicable when
batching messages [at the input level](/docs/configuration/batching).

Indexes can be negative, and if so the part will be selected from the end
counting backwards starting from -1.


Type: `array`  
Default: `[]`  


