---
title: command
type: processor
status: experimental
categories: ["Integration"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::caution EXPERIMENTAL
This component is experimental and therefore subject to change or removal outside of major version releases.
:::
Executes a command for each message.

Introduced in version 4.21.0.

```yml
# Config fields, showing default values
label: ""
command:
  name: bash # No default (required)
  args_mapping: '[ "-c", this.script_path ]' # No default (optional)
```

The specified command is executed for each message processed, with the raw bytes of the message being fed into the stdin of the command process, and the resulting message having its contents replaced with the stdout of it.

## Performance

Since this processor executes a new process for each message performance will likely be an issue for high throughput streams. If this is the case then consider using the [`subprocess` processor](/docs/components/processors/subprocess) instead as it keeps the underlying process alive long term and uses codecs to insert and extract inputs and outputs to it via stdin/stdout.

## Error Handling

If a non-zero error code is returned by the command then an error containing the entirety of stderr (or a generic message if nothing is written) is set on the message. These failed messages will continue through the pipeline unchanged, but can be dropped or placed in a dead letter queue according to your config, you can read about these patterns [here](/docs/configuration/error_handling).

If the command is successful but stderr is written to then a metadata field `command_stderr` is populated with its contents.


## Fields

### `name`

The name of the command to execute.
This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#bloblang-queries).


Type: `string`  

```yml
# Examples

name: bash

name: go

name: ${! @command }
```

### `args_mapping`

An optional [Bloblang mapping](/docs/guides/bloblang/about) that, when specified, should resolve into an array of arguments to pass to the command. Command arguments are expressed this way in order to support dynamic behaviour.


Type: `string`  

```yml
# Examples

args_mapping: '[ "-c", this.script_path ]'
```

## Examples

<Tabs defaultValue="Cron Scheduled Command" values={[
{ label: 'Cron Scheduled Command', value: 'Cron Scheduled Command', },
{ label: 'Dynamic Command Execution', value: 'Dynamic Command Execution', },
]}>

<TabItem value="Cron Scheduled Command">

This example uses a [`generate` input](/docs/components/inputs/generate) to trigger a command on a cron schedule:

```yaml
input:
  generate:
    interval: '0,30 */2 * * * *'
    mapping: 'root = ""' # Empty string as we do not need to pipe anything to stdin
  processors:
    - command:
        name: df
        args_mapping: '[ "-h" ]'
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Dynamic Command Execution">

This example config takes structured messages of the form `{"command":"echo","args":["foo"]}` and uses their contents to execute the contained command and arguments dynamically, replacing its contents with the command result printed to stdout:

```yaml
pipeline:
  processors:
    - command:
        name: ${! this.command }
        args_mapping: 'this.args'
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>


