---
title: lambda
type: processor
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/processor/lambda.go
-->


Invokes an AWS lambda for each message. The contents of the message is the
payload of the request, and the result of the invocation will become the new
contents of the message.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
lambda:
  parallel: false
  function: ""
  region: eu-west-1
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
lambda:
  parallel: false
  function: ""
  rate_limit: ""
  region: eu-west-1
  endpoint: ""
  credentials:
    profile: ""
    id: ""
    secret: ""
    token: ""
    role: ""
    role_external_id: ""
  timeout: 5s
  retries: 3
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

It is possible to perform requests per message of a batch in parallel by setting
the `parallel` flag to `true`. The `rate_limit`
field can be used to specify a rate limit [resource](/docs/components/rate_limits/about)
to cap the rate of requests across parallel components service wide.

In order to map or encode the payload to a specific request body, and map the
response back into the original payload instead of replacing it entirely, you
can use the [`process_map`](/docs/components/processors/process_map) or
 [`process_field`](/docs/components/processors/process_field) processors.

### Error Handling

When all retry attempts for a message are exhausted the processor cancels the
attempt. These failed messages will continue through the pipeline unchanged, but
can be dropped or placed in a dead letter queue according to your config, you
can read about these patterns [here](/docs/configuration/error_handling).

### Credentials

By default Benthos will use a shared credentials file when connecting to AWS
services. It's also possible to set them explicitly at the component level,
allowing you to transfer data across accounts. You can find out more
[in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

## Fields

### `parallel`

`bool` Whether messages of a batch should be dispatched in parallel.

### `function`

`string` The function to invoke.

### `rate_limit`

`string` An optional [`rate_limit`](/docs/components/rate_limits/about) to throttle invocations by.

### `region`

`string` The AWS region to target.

### `endpoint`

`string` Allows you to specify a custom endpoint for the AWS API.

### `credentials`

`object` Optional manual configuration of AWS credentials to use. More information can be found [in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

### `credentials.profile`

`string` A profile from `~/.aws/credentials` to use.

### `credentials.id`

`string` The ID of credentials to use.

### `credentials.secret`

`string` The secret for the credentials being used.

### `credentials.token`

`string` The token for the credentials being used, required when using short term credentials.

### `credentials.role`

`string` A role ARN to assume.

### `credentials.role_external_id`

`string` An external ID to provide when assuming a role.

### `timeout`

`string` The maximum period of time to wait before abandoning an invocation.

### `retries`

`number` The maximum number of retry attempts for each message.


