---
title: number
type: processor
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/processor/number.go
-->


Parses message contents into a 64-bit floating point number and performs an
operator on it. In order to execute this processor on a sub field of a document
use it with the [`process_field`](/docs/components/processors/process_field) processor.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
number:
  operator: add
  value: 0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
number:
  operator: add
  value: 0
  parts: []
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

The value field can either be a number or a string type. If it is a string type
then this processor will interpolate functions within it, you can find a list of
functions [here](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

For example, if we wanted to subtract the current unix timestamp from the field
'foo' of a JSON document `{"foo":1561219142}` we could use the
following config:

``` yaml
process_field:
  path: foo
  result_type: float
  processors:
  - number:
      operator: subtract
      value: "${!timestamp_unix}"
```

Value interpolations are resolved once per message batch, in order to resolve it
for each message of the batch place it within a
[`for_each`](/docs/components/processors/for_each) processor.

## Operators

### `add`

Adds a value.

### `subtract`

Subtracts a value.

## Fields

### `operator`

`string` The [operator](#operators) to apply.

### `value`

`number` A value used by the operator.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions) that are resolved batch wide.

### `parts`

`array` An optional array of message indexes of a batch that the processor should apply to.
If left empty all messages are processed. This field is only applicable when
batching messages [at the input level](/docs/configuration/batching).

Indexes can be negative, and if so the part will be selected from the end
counting backwards starting from -1.


