---
title: process_map
type: processor
status: deprecated
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/processor/process_map.go
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

:::warning DEPRECATED
This component is deprecated and will be removed in the next major version release. Please consider moving onto [alternative components](#alternatives).
:::

A processor that extracts and maps fields identified via
[dot path](/docs/configuration/field_paths) from the original payload into a new
object, applies a list of processors to the newly constructed object, and
finally maps the result back into the original payload.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
# Common config fields, showing default values
process_map:
  conditions: []
  premap: {}
  premap_optional: {}
  processors: []
  postmap: {}
  postmap_optional: {}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
# All config fields, showing default values
process_map:
  conditions: []
  premap: {}
  premap_optional: {}
  processors: []
  postmap: {}
  postmap_optional: {}
  parts: []
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Alternatives

All functionality of this processor has been superseded by the
[branch](/docs/components/processors/branch) processor.

This processor is useful for performing processors on subsections of a payload.
For example, you could extract sections of a JSON object in order to construct
a reduced request object for an [`http`](/docs/components/processors/http)
processor, then map the result back into a field within the original object.

The order of stages of this processor are as follows:

- [Conditions](#conditions) are tested (if specified) against each message,
  messages that do not pass will not be processed.
- Messages that are flagged for processing are mapped according to the
  [premap](#premap) fields, creating a new object. If the premap stage fails
  (targets are not found) the message will not be processed.
- Messages that are mapped are processed as a batch.
- After all child processors are applied to the mapped messages they are mapped
  back into the original messages they originated from following the
  [postmap](#postmap) fields. If the postmap stage fails the mapping is skipped
  and the message payload remains as it started.

If the premap is empty then the full payload is sent to the processors, if the
postmap is empty then the processed result replaces the original contents
entirely.

### Batch Ordering

This processor supports batched messages, but the list of processors to apply
must NOT change the ordering (or count) of the messages (do not use a
`group_by` processor, for example).

### Error Handling

When premap, processing or postmap stages fail the underlying message will
remain unchanged, the errors are logged, and the message is flagged as having
failed, allowing you to use
[standard processor error handling patterns](/docs/configuration/error_handling)
for recovery.

## Fields

### `conditions`

A list of [conditions](/docs/components/conditions/about) to test against messages. If any condition fails then the message will not be mapped and processed.


Type: `array`  
Default: `[]`  

```yaml
# Examples

conditions:
  - bloblang: document.urls.length() > 0
```

### `premap`

A map of source to destination [paths](/docs/configuration/field_paths) used to create a new object from the original. An empty (or dot `.`) path indicates the root of the object. If a map source is not found then the message will not be processed, for optional sources use the field [`premap_optional`](#premap_optional).


Type: `object`  
Default: `{}`  

```yaml
# Examples

premap:
  .: field.from.document

premap:
  bar.baz: root.extra.baz
  foo: root.body.foo
```

### `premap_optional`

A map of optional source to destination [paths](/docs/configuration/field_paths) used to create a new object from the original.


Type: `object`  
Default: `{}`  

### `processors`

A list of processors to apply to mapped payloads.


Type: `array`  
Default: `[]`  

### `postmap`

A map of destination to source [paths](/docs/configuration/field_paths) used to map results from processing back into the original payload. An empty (or dot `.`) path indicates the root of the object. If a source is not found then the mapping is abandoned, for optional sources use the [`postmap_optional`](#postmap_optional) field.


Type: `object`  
Default: `{}`  

```yaml
# Examples

postmap:
  results.foo: .
```

### `postmap_optional`

A map of optional destination to source [paths](/docs/configuration/field_paths) used to map results from processing back into the original payload.


Type: `object`  
Default: `{}`  

### `parts`

An optional array of message indexes of a batch that the processor should apply to.
If left empty all messages are processed. This field is only applicable when
batching messages [at the input level](/docs/configuration/batching).

Indexes can be negative, and if so the part will be selected from the end
counting backwards starting from -1.


Type: `array`  
Default: `[]`  

## Examples

Given a message payload of:

```json
{
  "doc": {
    "id": "foo",
    "title": "foo bar baz",
    "description": "here's a thing",
    "content": "this is a body"
  }
}
```

We might wish to perform language detection on the `doc.content` field
by sending it to a hypothetical HTTP service. We do not wish to overwrite the
original document with the result, and instead want to place it within the path
`doc.language`, and so this is a good use case for `process_map`:

```yaml
pipeline:
  processors:
    - process_map:
        premap:
          content: doc.content
        processors:
          - http:
              url: http://localhost:1234
        postmap:
          doc.language: .
```

With the above config we would send our target HTTP service the payload
`{"content":"this is a body"}`, and whatever the service returns
will get mapped into our original document:

```json
{
  "doc": {
    "id": "foo",
    "title": "foo bar baz",
    "description": "here's a thing",
    "content": "this is a body",
    "language": {
      "code": "en",
      "certainty": 0.2
    }
  }
}
```

