---
title: subprocess
type: processor
status: stable
categories: ["Integration"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the corresponding source file under internal/impl/<provider>.
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


Executes a command as a subprocess and, for each message, will pipe its contents to the stdin stream of the process followed by a newline.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yml
# Common config fields, showing default values
label: ""
subprocess:
  name: ""
  args: []
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yml
# All config fields, showing default values
label: ""
subprocess:
  name: ""
  args: []
  max_buffer: 65536
  codec_send: lines
  codec_recv: lines
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

:::info
This processor keeps the subprocess alive and requires very specific behaviour from the command executed. If you wish to simply execute a command for each message take a look at the [`command` processor](/docs/components/processors/command) instead.
:::

The subprocess must then either return a line over stdout or stderr. If a response is returned over stdout then its contents will replace the message. If a response is instead returned from stderr it will be logged and the message will continue unchanged and will be [marked as failed](/docs/configuration/error_handling).

Rather than separating data by a newline it's possible to specify alternative [`codec_send`](#codec_send) and [`codec_recv`](#codec_recv) values, which allow binary messages to be encoded for logical separation.

The execution environment of the subprocess is the same as the Benthos instance, including environment variables and the current working directory.

The field `max_buffer` defines the maximum response size able to be read from the subprocess. This value should be set significantly above the real expected maximum response size.

## Subprocess requirements

It is required that subprocesses flush their stdout and stderr pipes for each line. Benthos will attempt to keep the process alive for as long as the pipeline is running. If the process exits early it will be restarted.

## Messages containing line breaks

If a message contains line breaks each line of the message is piped to the subprocess and flushed, and a response is expected from the subprocess before another line is fed in.

## Fields

### `name`

The command to execute as a subprocess.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

```yml
# Examples

name: cat

name: sed

name: awk
```

### `args`

A list of arguments to provide the command.


Type: `array`  
Default: `[]`  

### `max_buffer`

The maximum expected response size.


Type: `int`  
Default: `65536`  

### `codec_send`

Determines how messages written to the subprocess are encoded, which allows them to be logically separated.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"lines"`  
Requires version 3.37.0 or newer  
Options: `lines`, `length_prefixed_uint32_be`, `netstring`.

### `codec_recv`

Determines how messages read from the subprocess are decoded, which allows them to be logically separated.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"lines"`  
Requires version 3.37.0 or newer  
Options: `lines`, `length_prefixed_uint32_be`, `netstring`.


