---
title: unarchive
type: processor
status: stable
categories: ["Parsing"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/processor/unarchive.go
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


Unarchives messages according to the selected archive [format](#formats) into
multiple messages within a [batch](/docs/configuration/batching).


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
# Common config fields, showing default values
unarchive:
  format: binary
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
# All config fields, showing default values
unarchive:
  format: binary
  parts: []
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

When a message is unarchived the new messages replace the original message in
the batch. Messages that are selected but fail to unarchive (invalid format)
will remain unchanged in the message batch but will be flagged as having failed,
allowing you to [error handle them](/docs/configuration/error_handling).

For the unarchive formats that contain file information (tar, zip), a metadata
field is added to each message called `archive_filename` with the
extracted filename.

## Fields

### `format`

The unarchive [format](#formats) to use.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"binary"`  
Options: `tar`, `zip`, `binary`, `lines`, `json_documents`, `json_array`, `json_map`.

### `parts`

An optional array of message indexes of a batch that the processor should apply to.
If left empty all messages are processed. This field is only applicable when
batching messages [at the input level](/docs/configuration/batching).

Indexes can be negative, and if so the part will be selected from the end
counting backwards starting from -1.


Type: `array`  
Default: `[]`  

## Formats

### `tar`

Extract messages from a unix standard tape archive.

### `zip`

Extract messages from a zip file.

### `binary`

Extract messages from a binary blob format consisting of:

- Four bytes containing number of messages in the batch (in big endian)
- For each message part:
  + Four bytes containing the length of the message (in big endian)
  + The content of message

### `lines`

Extract the lines of a message each into their own message.

### `json_documents`

Attempt to parse a message as a stream of concatenated JSON documents. Each
parsed document is expanded into a new message.

### `json_array`

Attempt to parse a message as a JSON array, and extract each element into its
own message.

### `json_map`

Attempt to parse the message as a JSON map and for each element of the map
expands its contents into a new message. A metadata field is added to each
message called `archive_key` with the relevant key from the top-level
map.

