---
title: s3
type: cache
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/cache/s3.go
-->


Stores each item in an S3 bucket as a file, where an item ID is the path of the
item within the bucket.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
s3:
  bucket: ""
  content_type: application/octet-stream
  region: eu-west-1
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
s3:
  bucket: ""
  content_type: application/octet-stream
  force_path_style_urls: false
  timeout: 5s
  retries: 3
  region: eu-west-1
  endpoint: ""
  credentials:
    profile: ""
    id: ""
    secret: ""
    token: ""
    role: ""
    role_external_id: ""
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

It is not possible to atomically upload S3 objects exclusively when the target
does not already exist, therefore this cache is not suitable for deduplication.

### Credentials

By default Benthos will use a shared credentials file when connecting to AWS
services. It's also possible to set them explicitly at the component level,
allowing you to transfer data across accounts. You can find out more
[in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

## Fields

### `bucket`

`string` The S3 bucket to store items in.

### `content_type`

`string` The content type to set for each item.

### `force_path_style_urls`

`bool` Forces the client API to use path style URLs, which helps when connecting to custom endpoints.

### `timeout`

`string` The maximum period to wait on requests before abandoning it.

### `retries`

`number` The maximum number of retry attempts to make before abandoning a request.

### `region`

`string` The AWS region to target.

### `endpoint`

`string` Allows you to specify a custom endpoint for the AWS API.

### `credentials`

`object` Optional manual configuration of AWS credentials to use. More information can be found [in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

### `credentials.profile`

`string` A profile from `~/.aws/credentials` to use.

### `credentials.id`

`string` The ID of credentials to use.

### `credentials.secret`

`string` The secret for the credentials being used.

### `credentials.token`

`string` The token for the credentials being used, required when using short term credentials.

### `credentials.role`

`string` A role ARN to assume.

### `credentials.role_external_id`

`string` An external ID to provide when assuming a role.


