---
title: retry
type: output
status: stable
categories: ["Utility"]
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/output/retry.go
-->

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';


Attempts to write messages to a child output and if the write fails for any
reason the message is retried either until success or, if the retries or max
elapsed time fields are non-zero, either is reached.


<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

<TabItem value="common">

```yml
# Common config fields, showing default values
output:
  label: ""
  retry:
    output: {}
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yml
# All config fields, showing default values
output:
  label: ""
  retry:
    max_retries: 0
    backoff:
      initial_interval: 500ms
      max_interval: 3s
      max_elapsed_time: 0s
    output: {}
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

All messages in Benthos are always retried on an output error, but this would
usually involve propagating the error back to the source of the message, whereby
it would be reprocessed before reaching the output layer once again.

This output type is useful whenever we wish to avoid reprocessing a message on
the event of a failed send. We might, for example, have a dedupe processor that
we want to avoid reapplying to the same message more than once in the pipeline.

Rather than retrying the same output you may wish to retry the send using a
different output target (a dead letter queue). In which case you should instead
use the [`fallback`](/docs/components/outputs/fallback) output type.

## Fields

### `max_retries`

The maximum number of retries before giving up on the request. If set to zero there is no discrete limit.


Type: `int`  
Default: `0`  

### `backoff`

Control time intervals between retry attempts.


Type: `object`  

### `backoff.initial_interval`

The initial period to wait between retry attempts.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"100ms"`  

### `backoff.max_interval`

The maximum period to wait between retry attempts.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"1s"`  

### `backoff.max_elapsed_time`

The maximum period to wait before retry attempts are abandoned. If zero then no limit is used.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"0s"`  

### `output`

A child output.


Type: `output`  


