---
title: s3
type: output
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/output/s3.go
-->


Sends message parts as objects to an Amazon S3 bucket. Each object is uploaded
with the path specified with the `path` field.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
output:
  s3:
    bucket: ""
    path: ${!count:files}-${!timestamp_unix_nano}.txt
    content_type: application/octet-stream
    max_in_flight: 1
    region: eu-west-1
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
output:
  s3:
    bucket: ""
    path: ${!count:files}-${!timestamp_unix_nano}.txt
    content_type: application/octet-stream
    content_encoding: ""
    storage_class: STANDARD
    kms_key_id: ""
    force_path_style_urls: false
    max_in_flight: 1
    timeout: 5s
    region: eu-west-1
    endpoint: ""
    credentials:
      profile: ""
      id: ""
      secret: ""
      token: ""
      role: ""
      role_external_id: ""
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

In order to have a different path for each object you should use function
interpolations described [here](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions), which are
calculated per message of a batch.

### Credentials

By default Benthos will use a shared credentials file when connecting to AWS
services. It's also possible to set them explicitly at the component level,
allowing you to transfer data across accounts. You can find out more
[in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

## Performance

This output benefits from sending multiple messages in flight in parallel for
improved performance. You can tune the max number of in flight messages with the
field `max_in_flight`.

## Fields

### `bucket`

`string` The bucket to upload messages to.

### `path`

`string` The path of each message to upload.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

```yaml
# Examples

path: ${!count:files}-${!timestamp_unix_nano}.txt

path: ${!metadata:kafka_key}.json

path: ${!json_field:doc.namespace}/${!json_field:doc.id}.json
```

### `content_type`

`string` The content type to set for each object.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

### `content_encoding`

`string` An optional content encoding to set for each object.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

### `storage_class`

`string` The storage class to set for each object.

Options are: `STANDARD`, `REDUCED_REDUNDANCY`, `GLACIER`, `STANDARD_IA`, `ONEZONE_IA`, `INTELLIGENT_TIERING`, `DEEP_ARCHIVE`.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

### `kms_key_id`

`string` An optional server side encryption key.

### `force_path_style_urls`

`bool` Forces the client API to use path style URLs, which helps when connecting to custom endpoints.

### `max_in_flight`

`number` The maximum number of messages to have in flight at a given time. Increase this to improve throughput.

### `timeout`

`string` The maximum period to wait on an upload before abandoning it and reattempting.

### `region`

`string` The AWS region to target.

### `endpoint`

`string` Allows you to specify a custom endpoint for the AWS API.

### `credentials`

`object` Optional manual configuration of AWS credentials to use. More information can be found [in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

### `credentials.profile`

`string` A profile from `~/.aws/credentials` to use.

### `credentials.id`

`string` The ID of credentials to use.

### `credentials.secret`

`string` The secret for the credentials being used.

### `credentials.token`

`string` The token for the credentials being used, required when using short term credentials.

### `credentials.role`

`string` A role ARN to assume.

### `credentials.role_external_id`

`string` An external ID to provide when assuming a role.


