---
title: sqs
type: output
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/output/sqs.go
-->


Sends messages to an SQS queue.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
output:
  sqs:
    url: ""
    message_group_id: ""
    message_deduplication_id: ""
    max_in_flight: 1
    batching:
      count: 1
      byte_size: 0
      period: ""
    region: eu-west-1
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
output:
  sqs:
    url: ""
    message_group_id: ""
    message_deduplication_id: ""
    max_in_flight: 1
    batching:
      count: 1
      byte_size: 0
      period: ""
      condition:
        static: false
        type: static
    region: eu-west-1
    endpoint: ""
    credentials:
      profile: ""
      id: ""
      secret: ""
      token: ""
      role: ""
      role_external_id: ""
    max_retries: 0
    backoff:
      initial_interval: 1s
      max_interval: 5s
      max_elapsed_time: 30s
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Metadata values are sent along with the payload as attributes with the data type
String. If the number of metadata values in a message exceeds the message
attribute limit (10) then the top ten keys ordered alphabetically will be
selected.

The fields `message_group_id` and `message_deduplication_id` can be
set dynamically using
[function interpolations](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions), which are
resolved individually for each message of a batch.

### Credentials

By default Benthos will use a shared credentials file when connecting to AWS
services. It's also possible to set them explicitly at the component level,
allowing you to transfer data across accounts. You can find out more
[in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

## Performance

This output benefits from sending multiple messages in flight in parallel for
improved performance. You can tune the max number of in flight messages with the
field `max_in_flight`.

This output benefits from sending messages as a batch for improved performance.
Batches can be formed at both the input and output level. You can find out more
[in this doc](/docs/configuration/batching).

## Fields

### `url`

`string` The URL of the target SQS queue.

### `message_group_id`

`string` An optional group ID to set for messages.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

### `message_deduplication_id`

`string` An optional deduplication ID to set for messages.

This field supports [interpolation functions](/docs/configuration/interpolation#functions).

### `max_in_flight`

`number` The maximum number of messages to have in flight at a given time. Increase this to improve throughput.

### `batching`

`object` Allows you to configure a [batching policy](/docs/configuration/batching).

```yaml
# Examples

batching:
  byte_size: 5000
  period: 1s

batching:
  count: 10
  period: 1s

batching:
  condition:
    text:
      arg: END BATCH
      operator: contains
  period: 1m
```

### `batching.count`

`number` A number of messages at which the batch should be flushed. If `0` disables count based batching.

### `batching.byte_size`

`number` An amount of bytes at which the batch should be flushed. If `0` disables size based batching.

### `batching.period`

`string` A period in which an incomplete batch should be flushed regardless of its size.

```yaml
# Examples

period: 1s

period: 1m

period: 500ms
```

### `batching.condition`

`object` A [`condition`](/docs/components/conditions/about) to test against each message entering the batch, if this condition resolves to `true` then the batch is flushed.

### `region`

`string` The AWS region to target.

### `endpoint`

`string` Allows you to specify a custom endpoint for the AWS API.

### `credentials`

`object` Optional manual configuration of AWS credentials to use. More information can be found [in this document](/docs/guides/aws).

### `credentials.profile`

`string` A profile from `~/.aws/credentials` to use.

### `credentials.id`

`string` The ID of credentials to use.

### `credentials.secret`

`string` The secret for the credentials being used.

### `credentials.token`

`string` The token for the credentials being used, required when using short term credentials.

### `credentials.role`

`string` A role ARN to assume.

### `credentials.role_external_id`

`string` An external ID to provide when assuming a role.

### `max_retries`

`number` The maximum number of retries before giving up on the request. If set to zero there is no discrete limit.

### `backoff`

`object` Control time intervals between retry attempts.

### `backoff.initial_interval`

`string` The initial period to wait between retry attempts.

### `backoff.max_interval`

`string` The maximum period to wait between retry attempts.

### `backoff.max_elapsed_time`

`string` The maximum period to wait before retry attempts are abandoned. If zero then no limit is used.


