---
title: text
type: condition
---

<!--
     THIS FILE IS AUTOGENERATED!

     To make changes please edit the contents of:
     lib/condition/text.go
-->


Checks the contents of a message as plain text against a logical
[operator](#operators) and an argument.


import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';

<Tabs defaultValue="common" values={[
  { label: 'Common', value: 'common', },
  { label: 'Advanced', value: 'advanced', },
]}>

import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

<TabItem value="common">

```yaml
# Common config fields, showing default values
text:
  operator: equals_cs
  arg: ""
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="advanced">

```yaml
# All config fields, showing default values
text:
  operator: equals_cs
  arg: ""
  part: 0
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

It's possible to use the [`check_field`](/docs/components/conditions/check_field) and
[`check_interpolation`](/docs/components/conditions/check_interpolation) conditions to check a
text condition against arbitrary metadata or fields of messages.

## Fields

### `operator`

An [operator](#operators) to apply.


Type: `string`  
Default: `"equals_cs"`  

### `arg`

An argument to check against. For some operators this field not be required.


Type: `string`  
Default: `""`  

### `part`

The index of a message within a batch to test the condition against. This
field is only applicable when batching messages
[at the input level](/docs/configuration/batching).

Indexes can be negative, and if so the part will be selected from the end
counting backwards starting from -1.


Type: `number`  
Default: `0`  

## Operators

### `equals_cs`

Checks whether the content equals the argument (case sensitive.)

### `equals`

Checks whether the content equals the argument under unicode case-folding (case
insensitive.)

### `contains_cs`

Checks whether the content contains the argument (case sensitive.)

### `contains`

Checks whether the content contains the argument under unicode case-folding
(case insensitive).

### `contains_any_cs`

Checks whether the content contains any of the list of arguments under unicode case-folding (case sensitive).

### `contains_any`

Checks whether the content contains any of the list of arguments under unicode case-folding (case insensitive).

### `is`

Checks whether the content meets the characteristic of a type specified in 
the argument field. Supported types are `ip`, `ipv4`, `ipv6`.

### `prefix_cs`

Checks whether the content begins with the argument (case sensitive.)

### `prefix`

Checks whether the content begins with the argument under unicode case-folding
(case insensitive.)

### `suffix_cs`

Checks whether the content ends with the argument (case sensitive.)

### `suffix`

Checks whether the content ends with the argument under unicode case-folding
(case insensitive.)

### `regexp_partial`

Checks whether any section of the content matches a regular expression (RE2
syntax).

### `regexp_exact`

Checks whether the content exactly matches a regular expression (RE2 syntax).

### `enum`

Checks whether the content matches any entry of a list of arguments, the field
`arg` must be an array for this operator, e.g.:

``` yaml
text:
  operator: enum
  arg:
  - foo
  - bar
```

## Examples

To test a text condition against a JSON field `foo.bar` you can use:

``` yaml
check_field:
  path: foo.bar
  condition:
    text:
      operator: enum
      arg:
      - foo
      - bar
```

